# # Scott Schlangen

- 📧 Email: [scott@scottschlangen.com](mailto:scott@scottschlangen.com)
- 🌐 Website: [scottschlangen.com](http://scottschlangen.com)
- 🐱 GitHub: [schlangens](https://github.com/schlangens)
- 💼 LinkedIn: [scottschlangen](https://linkedin.com/in/scottschlangen)

_Lifelong learner with a big-picture mindset, exceptional technical management skills, and the capacity to energize a team of professionals by creating a resilient and innovative team culture._

## Qualifications Summary

- Visionary professional who can configure and troubleshoot security controls for hosted technologies that are maintained on-premises.
- Collaborative team player with high emotional intelligence and the capacity to assist in developing comprehensive reports that measure security control performance and support designing and delivering system control enhancements.
- Exceptional communicator and change agent with a sharp power of observation, able to simplify sophisticated issues to make them easily comprehensible for a broader audience.
- Ambitious, high-energy self-starter with a proven ability to plan, prioritize, manage, and complete undertakings within fast-paced, deadline-driven situations; skilled in monitoring security measures to protect information resources.
- Dedicated individual with a dynamic growth mindset, strong management and people skills, personal values, integrity, and technical knowledge; able to contribute to designing computer security architectures by helping incorporate cybersecurity into each architecture's design.
- Highly effective strategist who can use creativity to determine the best course of action for the organization through skills that transfer across multiple industries and positions.

## Career Experience

### Quadrant Information Security

**Cyber Threat Analyst**

- Monitor network traffic and security alerts to identify potential cyber threats.
- Investigate alerts generated by security tools and escalate potential incidents.
- Analyze log files from various sources (e.g., individual host logs, network traffic logs, firewall logs, and intrusion detection system [IDS] logs) to identify possible threats to network security.
- Analyze security incidents to enhance the alert catalog further.
- Perform analysis of malicious activity to determine weaknesses exploited, exploitation methods, and effects on system and information.
- Analyze available data sources, security tools, and threat trends and lead security monitoring and analysis techniques to identify attacks against the enterprise.


### MIE Medical Information Engineering

**DevOps Engineer**

- Established a solid foundation for success by managing infrastructure using code (Terraform / Ansible). Demonstrated leadership and communication skills by implementing and enforcing IAM policies; enhanced security by ensuring only authorized users could access critical resources.
- Facilitated a 40% reduction in intervention and significantly decreased the risk of human error in deployment processes by automating routine responsibilities and workflows.
- Generated energy and stability by integrating automated security testing into the development pipeline, enhancing application security, and reducing vulnerabilities in close partnership with security teams.
- Exercised sound judgment and discretion while securely managing secret and sensitive data through HashiCorp Vault; known to ensure compliance and commitment to security best practices.

### eVideon by Vibe Health

**Systems Engineer**

- Maximized productivity and provided vital structure by building out infrastructure in AWS. Exhibited resourcefulness by assisting in the implementation of ISO-27001. Leveraged experience and functional knowledge to help research and deploy SIEM. Served as an integral member of the Incident Response Team, responsible for containment and remediation efforts.
- Streamlined processes, clarified expectations, and improved consistency by promoting end-user education by implementing Security Awareness Training and Phishing Campaigns.
- Increased personal and professional effectiveness by managing, monitoring, and maintaining on-premises and cloud-based servers.
- Exercised detailed analysis and judgment to review IT systems and applications for large enterprise environments.

### 4eos - Netgain Technologies | Fort Wayne IN

**System Administrator**

- Harmonized operations by configuring and administering firewall rules, applications, VPN, and IDS / IPS settings to ensure a secure perimeter defense. Ensured quality execution by analyzing and applying established information security principles and practices. Embraced responsibility for reviewing IT systems and applications for large enterprise environments.
- Oversaw and supported containment and remediation efforts as an integral member of the Incident Response Team.
- Provided insightful vision and guidance by implementing Security Awareness Training and Phishing Campaigns to promote and advance end-user education.
- Employed refined relationship-building skills and collaborative mindset while supporting, communicating, and assisting organizations secure and operate business IT.

### Everstream Solutions | Indianapolis, IN

**Network Operations Center Engineer**

- Rapidly excelled within position by administering carrier repair of customers’ circuit issues from origin to successful closure across assigned operations. Exhibited commitment and determination by monitoring networks; responded to alarms and communicated effectively with customers to determine and ameliorate impact.

_Additional Experience as_ **_NOC Service Desk Technician_**, Indiana University, Purdue University Indianapolis; **_Security_** **_Analyst_**, Rook Security, Indianapolis, IN.

## Education and Certifications

- CompTIA Security+
- CompTIA Network+
- CompTIA Project+
- AWS Cloud Practitioner
- AWS Solutions Architect, Associate
- Linux Essentials from LPI
- JNCIA Juniper Networking Associate

## Professional and Technical Proficiencies

**Information Security:** Patch Management | Threat Hunting | Vulnerability Assessment | Malware Remediation | Firewalls | VPN | Security Awareness Training | Log Management / Correlation, Risk Assessment | System Scanning | System Registration | SADLC (Secure Application Development Life Cycle)

**Digital Forensics:** Evidence Collecion | Disk Forensics | USB Forensics | Memory Forensics | Network Forensics | Kape | FTK Imager | Dumpit | Volatility | Wireshark | PCAP Analysis 

**SecOPS:** OSSEC | NESSUS | Microsoft Sentinel SIEM | Canary Tokens | Honeypot

**Incident Response:** Suricata | Rita | Sysmon | Velociraptor

**Perimeter Defense:** GoPhish | Email Security Controls | DKIM | SPF | DMARC | BIMI (Brand Indicators for Message Identification)

**Administration Experience**: Windows OS, Server 2019 | Linux, RHEL, CentOS, Rocky, Alma, PopOS, Ubuntu | 0365 | Azure Portal Admin | Microsoft Teams (VOIP) | 3cx (VOIP) | Juniper | Cisco | Fortigate | Ubiquiti | WSUS | Hyper-V | Cloud Architecture | AWS Cloud | AWS | Amazon Web Services | Cloud Data 

**Software / Application / Vendor Experience**: Microsoft Sentinel |  Tanium | Splunk | Connectwise Automate | Bit-titan | Google Workspace | Datto | Veeam | KnowB4 |  AWS

**Programming Experience**: HTML / CSS / JS | Python | Bash | Powershell | SQL | Scripting

**Project Management:** Change Managment | Waterfall | Agile | Managing Resources | Project Contraints | Project Tools and Documentation

## Professional Affiliations

- CISA
- Security Magazine
